Holly

Year: 2006
Director: Guy Moshe
Genre: Drama
Country: United States (filmed on location in Cambodia)
Language: English, Khmer, Vietnamese
Runtime: 113 minutes

Cast:
Ron Livingston as Patrick Thom
Chris Penn as Freddie Vibal
Udo Kier as Klaus
Virginie Ledoyen as Marie
Jacquie Nguyen as Holly
Sahajak Boonthanakit as Tommy
Adi Ezroni as Emma
Chaya Supannarat as Lan

Plot Summary:
Patrick Thom, an American card shark and dealer of stolen artifacts, has been "comfortably numb" in Cambodia for years, when he encounters Holly, a 12-year-old Vietnamese girl, in the K-11 red light village of Phnom Penh. The girl has been sold by her impoverished family and smuggled across the border to work as a prostitute. Patrick wants to save Holly, but Marie, a social worker, tells him that paying for her freedom will supply the demand of the traffickers, which will cause more children to be trafficked. The social worker also tells him that the U.S. will not let him adopt Holly. Marie informs him of the issues of reintegrating her into society.

Production:
The film was shot at a 200 ASA filming speed to make a unique grain structure and contrasted color. Director Guy Moshe said that the film was very hard to produce, due to the fact that there were multiple languages being spoken, shooting six-day weeks, 17-hour days, in 100 degree Fahrenheit, and some cast members received food poisoning. The film was shot on location in Cambodia, including many scenes in actual brothels in the notorious red light district of Phnom Penh. Moshe was inspired by a script by Guy Jacobson which Moshe felt had "tremendous potential."

Reception:
Jeannette Catsoulis of the New York Times called the film a "riveting story" and commented: "What could have been a gripping study of emotional resurrection devolves into a blurred odyssey of white guilt." On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a 65% approval rating based on 23 reviews. The cinematography and editing, specifically the use of slow-motion and violins, were praised by critics.

Overview:
Holly is a 2006 drama film directed by Guy Moshe about an American stolen artifacts dealer in Cambodia who tries to save a young girl from child traffickers. Shot entirely on location in Cambodia, the film deals with the serious issue of child trafficking in Southeast Asia. It features Ron Livingston, Chris Penn, and Thuy Nguyen in leading roles.
