Karmalink

Year: 2021

Plot Summary:
In a near future Phnom Penh, a community is threatened with eviction to make way for a bullet train service to China. The wealthy use nanotechnology to "augment" their experiences. At night, Leng Heng dreams of his previous lives and of a solid gold Buddha, which he is convinced will help prevent his family from being evicted. He and orphan street child Srey Leak begin a search for the Buddha in the hope it will protect their community.

Reception:
On the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 89% based on 19 critics' reviews, with an average rating of 7.0/10. Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, assigned the film a score of 73 out of 100, based on 4 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews". 
Richard Kuipers gave the film a positive review in Variety, praising its filming locations, themes, musical score and performances. In Screen Rant, Nadir Samara commended the cinematography and production design, but critiqued the dialogue and execution of its themes, concluding that the film was "beautifully imperfect". Wendy Ide in Screen Daily also praised the film's worldbuilding and the central performances from its nonprofessional actors, concluding that "While the first two acts are more engaging and accessible than the third – the picture does get a little bogged down in its effects and ideas – there's no question that this is an imaginative and original debut from director Jake Wachtel."

Overview:
Karmalink is a 2021 science fiction film directed and co-written by Jake Wachtel in his feature film directorial debut. An international co-production of Cambodia and the United States, it is the first Cambodian-produced science fiction film. It stars Leng Heng Prak and Srey Leak Chhith in their acting debuts, who also worked with Wachtel and co-writer Christopher Larsen on developing the story and translating it into Khmer. The film is dedicated to lead actor Leng Heng Prak, who died before its completion.
