The Red Sense

Year: 2006
Director: Tim Pek's debut film and was produced by Transparent Pictures

Cast:
Rithy Dourng
Niki Davis
Narith Eng
Sarina Luy
Kaply Mon
Vicheth Muy
Paly Net

Plot Summary:
The film is a mystery story set in Cambodia in the Khmer Rouge era.

Reception:
In Angkorian Society, Hemara In said, "Tim Pek's film is very promising. He has been through the Pol Pot, Khmer Rouge and understands how this effect him, very proud of Tim Pek and a great Cambodian community here will support him and would like to wish Tim Pek a great future" (sic) while two critics of Anonymous, Chris & Margot, stated that "The emotionals were there and come from the heart. It deserves all the praise that it gets" Says Chris." The Khmer Rouge result was some consequences and I congratulate Tim Pek on The Red Sense." Says Margot. Clayton MP, Mr. Hong Lim also described the film to positive reviews. He said: "The way he approaches the film is very opportunistic, the way that Tim portrays comes straight from the human heart. These story brings out the Khmer Rouge quite well, the way he put in with the past and present. All Cambodian communities should be very proud of this film".
In the Adelaide premier, the film also received A reviews. A film critic, Paul Millson, said: "Many people were very happy that Tim made a film for the thousands of family members that want this story to be told and shown all around the world for all to see".

Overview:
The Red Sense (Khmer: វិញ្ញាណក្រហម, romanized: Vĭnhnhéan Krâhâm) is a 2006 Khmer-Australian supernatural thriller film. It was director Tim Pek's debut film and was produced by Transparent Pictures. The success of The Red Sense led Transparent Pictures to produce films such as Bokator and Annoyed. The Red Sense was first released in Australia in August 2008, and though banned for general release there, screened in Cambodia in December that year. It is rated M (Recommended for mature audiences) by the Office of Film and Literature Classification of Australia.
