The Night Curse of Reatrei

Year: 2024
Director: Leak Lyda and written by Nuon Molin

Cast:


Plot Summary:
1993, After moving into an abandoned orphanage, they realize that the whole building was cursed by a vengeful spirit, Reatrei. Tragedies start to happen one after another until they find what her curse wants.

Reception:
The Cambodian horror film The Night Curse of Reatrie is adapted from real events, and its horror atmosphere is comparable to It (2017 film) and The Conjuring. Expanding its reach, LD Productions has screened films in over 10 countries, adding three more destinations this year. Since the success of The Clock: Spirits Awakening. It received a high score of 8.7 on IMDb. Southeast Asia is a region filled with active and booming film industries, and in recent years, we’ve seen a rise in crossovers between the brightest stars from each country, giving audiences exciting and compelling movies that have only made fans want more. High five crossovers between southeast Asian actors as The Night Curse of Reatrei, Side Seeing, Deleted (film), One Two Jaga and Under Parallel Skies.
High recommend 10 horror movies from GirlStyle Magazine Malaysia as Night Swim, Longlegs, Imaginary (film), The First Omen, Exhuma, Mystery Writers, Smile 2, Death Whisperer 2, Abigail (2024 film) and The Night Curse of Reatrei.

Awards:


Overview:
The Night Curse of Reatrei (Khmer: បណ្ដាសានាងរាត្រី, Bon Das Sa Neang Reatrei; transl. The Curse of Lady Night) is a 2024 Cambodian horror mystery film directed by Leak Lyda and written by Nuon Molin.
It is a Cambodia-Myanmar venture produced by LD Picture Production and Real Bros Production. Starring Tharoth Sam, princess Norodom Jenna and Paing Takhon and distributed by Skyline Media, a leading Vietnamese studio.
It made a record of being the highest-grossing Cambodian horror film of 2024, the highest-grossing foreign film of 2024 in Myanmar, the highest-grossing Cambodian film of all time in Taiwan, and the second highest-grossing Cambodia film in Russia.
